https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-17646 OCP on IBM Subm doc (#7502)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: networking/submariner/deploy_subm_manual.adoc

[#deploying-submariner-manually]
= Deploying Submariner manually

If your cluster is hosted on a provider that does not support automatic Submariner deployment, see the following sections to prepare the infrastructure manually. Each provider has unique steps for preparation, so make sure to select the correct provider.

*Note:* By default, Submariner uses IP security (IPsec) to establish secure tunnels between the clusters on the gateway nodes. You can either use the default IPsec NATT port, or you can specify a different port that you configure. When you prepare or deploy clusters without specifying an IPsec NATT port, 4500/UDP is used for the connections.

* <<deploy-subm-manual-prereq,Prerequisites>>
* <<preparing-bare-metal-submariner,Preparing bare metal for Submariner>>
* <<preparing-aro-submariner-cli,Preparing Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShift for Submariner by using the CLI>>

> * <<preparing-rosa-submariner-cli,Preparing Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS for Submariner by using the CLI>>

Reviewer: Don't we want to add also pointer to the new section (IBM cloud) ?

Author: My bad, I added the new topic as a subtopic, which we don't list in the index. I'll change the new topic to be on the same level as Azure and ROSA.

[#deploying-submariner-manually]
= Deploying Submariner manually

If your cluster is hosted on a provider that does not support automatic Submariner deployment, see the following sections to prepare the infrastructure manually. Each provider has unique steps for preparation, so make sure to select the correct provider.

> *Note:* By default, Submariner uses IP security (IPsec) to establish secure tunnels between the clusters on the gateway nodes. You can either use the default IPsec NATT port, or you can specify a different port that you configure. When you prepare or deploy clusters without specifying an IPsec NATT port, 4500/UDP is used for the connections.

Reviewer: Maybe we should add here pointer to customize section (L289 below), something like  "check [link to customization section] for more details"

> *Note:* By default, Submariner uses IP security (IPsec) to establish secure tunnels between the clusters on the gateway nodes. You can either use the default IPsec NATT port, or you can specify a different port that you configure. When you prepare or deploy clusters without specifying an IPsec NATT port, 4500/UDP is used for the connections. See _Customizing Submariner deployments_ in the additional resources section to learn more.

Reviewer: Should it be link to _Customizing Submariner deployments_  section ?  because I can see it as regular text

Author: For links that the user doesn't have to follow right away, we just point them to the additional resources section so that we don't interrupt the flow with too many links.

* <<deploy-subm-manual-prereq,Prerequisites>>
* <<preparing-bare-metal-submariner,Preparing bare metal for Submariner>>
* <<preparing-aro-submariner-cli,Preparing Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShift for Submariner by using the CLI>>

> * <<preparing-rosa-submariner-cli,Preparing Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS for Submariner by using the CLI>>

Reviewer: it isn't related to IBM cloud, but I think we can delete the import cluster section for ROSA [1] , and ARO  [2] , just add something like " after importing cluster ,See [Cluster import introduction](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/72a5f7978eb94cf11aa3b03edc342b5f8a4932c8/clusters/cluster_lifecycle/import_intro.adoc#import-intro) to learn more about how to import a cluster. "          to **Deploying Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShift for Submariner by using the API** and **Deploying Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS for Submariner by using the API** section

[1]
"
Preparing Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS for Submariner by using the CLI
Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS provides a stable and flexible platform for application development and modernization. To prepare OpenShift Service on AWS clusters for deploying Submariner, complete the following steps:

Log in to OpenShift Service on AWS by running the following commands:

rosa login
oc login <rosa-cluster-url>:6443 --username cluster-admin --password <password>
Create a kubeconfig for your OpenShift Service on AWS cluster by running the following command:

oc config view --flatten=true > rosa_kube/kubeconfig
Import your OpenShift Service on AWS cluster. See [Cluster import introduction](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/72a5f7978eb94cf11aa3b03edc342b5f8a4932c8/clusters/cluster_lifecycle/import_intro.adoc#import-intro) to learn more about how to import a cluster.

[2] 
Preparing Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShift for Submariner by using the CLI
The Microsoft Azure Red Hat OpenShift service combines various tools and resources that you can use to simplify the process of building container-based applications. To prepare Azure Red Hat OpenShift clusters for deploying Submariner by using the command line interface, complete the following steps:

Install the [Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).

From the Azure CLI, run the following command to install the extension:

az extension add --upgrade -s <path-to-extension>
Replace path-to-extension with the path to where you downloaded the .whl extension file.

Run the following command to verify that the CLI extension is being used:

az extension list
If the extension is being used, the output might resemble the following example:

"experimental": false,
"extensionType": "whl",
"name": "aro",
"path": "<path-to-extension>",
"preview": true,
"version": "1.0.x"
From the Azure CLI, register the preview feature by running the following command:

az feature registration create --namespace Microsoft.RedHatOpenShift --name AdminKubeconfig
Retrieve the administrator kubeconfig by running the following command:

az aro get-admin-kubeconfig -g <resource group> -n <cluster resource name>
Note: The az aro command saves the kubeconfig to the local directory and uses the name kubeconfig. To use it, set the environment variable KUBECONFIG to match the path of the file. See the following example:

export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-kubeconfig>
oc get nodes
Import your Azure Red Hat OpenShift cluster. See [Cluster import introduction](https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/72a5f7978eb94cf11aa3b03edc342b5f8a4932c8/networking/clusters/cluster_lifecycle/import_intro.adoc#import-intro) to learn more about how to import a cluster.

Reviewer: @oafischer Do you prefer to have it in a separate PR ?

----

See link:../../clusters/cluster_lifecycle/import_intro.adoc#import-intro[Cluster import introduction] to learn more about how to import a cluster.

[#deploy-rosa-submariner-api]
=== Deploying Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS for Submariner by using the API

To deploy OpenShift Service on AWS clusters for Submariner by using the API, customize and apply YAML content that is similar to the following example:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner <1>
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace> <2>
spec:
    loadBalancerEnable: true
----

<1> The name must be `submariner`, as shown in the example.
<2> Replace with the name of your managed cluster.

[#deploy-ocp-ibm-cloud-subm]
== Deploying Red Hat OpenShift on IBM Cloud for Submariner by using the API (Technology Preview)

To prepare Red Hat OpenShift on IBM Cloud clusters for deploying Submariner by using the API, customize and apply YAML content that is similar to the following example:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner <1>

>     namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace> <2>

Reviewer 2: I see you use dashes here and throughout the rest of the PR but underscores in `spec.gatewayConfig.gateways`. Is there a reason for one or the other?

Author: Should all be dashes, I've been trying to convert them as I find them. Some of our legacy content is inconsistent. I'll update `spec.gatewayConfig.gateways` as well, thanks for spotting that!

spec:    
    gatewayConfig:
      gateways: <num_of_gateways> <3>
    loadBalancerEnable: true  
----

<1> The name must be `submariner`, as shown in the example.
<2> Replace with the name of your managed cluster.

> <3> Set the value higher than `1` if you need Submrminer gateway High Availability (HA).

Reviewer 2: I feel like a "with" is missing here
```suggestion
<3> Set the value higher than `1` if you need Submariner gateway with High Availability (HA).
```

apiVersion: submarineraddon.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: SubmarinerConfig
metadata:
    name: submariner <1>
    namespace: <managed-cluster-namespace> <2>
spec:
    loadBalancerEnable: true
----

<1> The name must be `submariner`, as shown in the example.
<2> Replace with the name of your managed cluster.

> By default, Submariner uses IP security (IPsec) to establish the secure tunnels between the clusters on the gateway nodes. You can either use the default IPsec NATT port, or you can specify a different port that you configured. When you run this procedure without specifying an IPsec NATT port, port 4500/UDP is used for the connections.

Reviewer: This part is relevant for Submariner deployments for all platforms, maybe we should only include it once in one of the platforms , and for rest of the platforms just point to customizing Submariner config link.

Author: I can add it as a note at the very top of the file where the intro is.

Similarly, I can add the customizing link to an "Additional resources" section at the end of the file, so we don't have to repeat that either.

See xref:../submariner/subm_customize.adoc#customizing-submariner[Customizing Submariner deployments] for information about the customization options. 

[#preparing-ocp-ibm-cloud-subm]

> === Preparing Red Hat OpenShift on IBM Cloud for Submariner by using the API (Technology Preview)

Reviewer: Actually, it isn't preparing, it is the actual deployment of Submariner using the API , maybe we should update to " Deploying Submariner on Red Hat OpenShift on IBM Cloud using the API"

Reviewer: Same also in these two sections : 
https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/fb01567dd534c2d687b93bd43d0c3ccca5968532/networking/submariner/deploy_subm_manual.adoc#preparing-microsoft-azure-red-hat-openshift-for-submariner-by-using-the-api 

https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/blob/fb01567dd534c2d687b93bd43d0c3ccca5968532/networking/submariner/deploy_subm_manual.adoc#preparing-red-hat-openshift-service-on-aws-for-submariner-by-using-the-api

Author: Updated

* `SubmarinerGatewayNodesLabeled` condition indicates whether there are labeled Submariner gateway nodes on the managed cluster.
* `SubmarinerAgentDegraded` condition indicates whether the Submariner is successfully deployed on the managed cluster.
* `SubmarinerConnectionDegraded` condition indicates how many connections are established on the managed cluster with Submariner.

[#add-resources-subm-manual]
== Additional resources

> See xref:../submariner/subm_customize.adoc#customizing-submariner[Customizing Submariner deployments] for information about the customization options.

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason that this is the only one in the Additional resources section? I think you could use inline links everywhere or add the other links to Additional resources, to be consistent

Author: Most of the other ones are links the user needs to follow right away, this one is just for extra information, and it appears multiple times. I think maybe the Cluster import link could be added here, but I'm inclined to leave it as well since that is a common next step after the preparation topics.
